# Arachne

**Arachne** is a Rust-based code generator that compiles Domain-Specific Modeling Languages (DSMLs) defined with Ecore metamodels into Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs), leveraging the Moirai library.

## Overview

This code generator bridges the gap between high-level domain models (defined in Ecore) and distributed, eventually consistent data structures (CRDTs). It automatically generates Rust code that leverages the Moirai library to provide conflict-free replication semantics for your domain models.

## Project Organization

- `arachne-parser`: an Ecore-to-Rust parser, forked from `ecore.rs`.
- `arachne-codegen`: core component that generates a composition of CRDTs from a parsed Ecore metamodel.
- `arachne-cli`: Command Line Interface tool.

## Running the generator

```sh
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run generate -vv -o <WHERE_TO_GENERATE_PROJECT> <PATH_TO_ECORE_METAMODEL>
```

## Testing the generator on ModelSet

[ModelSet](https://github.com/modelset/modelset-dataset) is a dataset of +5,000 Ecore and UML models. We provide a simple Python script (`modelset_coverage.py`) to automatically pass the models from ModelSet into Arachne to assess its capabilities. For each model, the script if 1. the model was correctly parsed, 2. the model was correctly generated by Arachne, and 3. the generated code compiles.

The script assumes that the dataset lives in `~/Downloads/modelset`. Change the path if necessary.

### Examples

```sh
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run generate -vv -o ../class_hierarchy ./examples/class_hierarchy.ecore
```

```sh
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run generate -vv -o ../behavior_tree ./examples/bt.ecore
```

```sh
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run generate -vv -o ../json ./examples/json.ecore
```

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Acknowledgments

Developed at [CEA LIST](https://list.cea.fr/en/), the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission.

**Authors:**

- Léo Olivier ([@leo-olivier](https://github.com/leo-olivier))
